geraldine humbled the green light for
defensemen tell us about your
decision-making process
well I'll be a defenseman knowing when
to jump into rush comes with a lot of
experience and being able to read the
play and knowing the situation probably
the best time to jump into the rush is
going to be when to Ford's get caught
deep but defenseman in front of net is
going to be able to beat them up the ice
and join the rush to create an out man
the opponent's so you're not just
thinking out in front of that oh good we
got the puck you got to make that read
instantaneously no obviously for your
first goal is defense but once you get
that pop you're looking to go and one of
this point before we show an
illustration of it nice and slow once
you've committed is there a time at
which you back off a time that you keep
going absolutely if I you're still
outnumbered on magic pass the red line
and get into the offensive blue light
green light keep going but if a back
checker catches up to one of those
forwards or myself that's the time when
I'm going to decide to back off and play
defense okay I'm backing up into the
front of my neck okay
offensive players dumps the puck like
hard to get the puck makes a nice pot
look for the read jump into the left
upper and here we go again backing up
I'm reading the play and it's from the
net hey it's tough man to get the
jump here we go cbc.ca flashed a cocky
four more
I've been Brian Rory the Ottawa Senators
and the sentence of the players probably
hate set plays in practice you've said
that Brian sometimes because they're all
individually creative but you do work on
the set plays in there they're magic for
the team now this is a chance to do what
probably they enjoy the most well I
think fun games your sub eyes individual
trying to beat another person lots of
small games lots of activity straights
the conditioning most importantly it's
great for fun and it develops skills at
the same time and the players love it at
the NHL level or at the minor hockey
level so we do a variety of them and I
really think that it helps the attitude
and your practices end up in a very
enjoyable way you hear a lot of
complaints with not enough practice time
coaches love practice time but how much
of a practice would you dedicate to a
game we try in our warm-up to do a small
three on three drill and we fly at the
ANA practice at least a couple three
times a week we have lots of ice fun run
but a couple times a week at least where
we have a small game at the end whether
it be tic tac toe as the boys are
playing now or cross-ice three on three
and the good thing about it you can
change it to four and three you can
change that three on two so the thinking
or the process of thinking takes place
at the same time they're adjustments
transition that have to take place all
right that's a fundamental I mean
Gretzky all the great players developing
shinny on the backyard rank here we have
the tic-tac-toe game just brief
explanation is basically all it is is
three against three
two young man if they blue line it can
be the code it can be additional players
on a turnover the has to come out
to the blue line it forces the other
players is set up defensively and the
offensive players to open up and give a
position for the coach to pass the puck
through so there's a lot of things that
happen in it there's lots of sense to
touch the puck and obviously there's
lots of fun and a great goals finish it
off see you see guys see a slight stink
Archie
this is really something Brian had no
idea we're going to talk Manny about the
number of strips of tape on the blade of
his stick but there he is honoring glory
how after a thousand victories in the
OHA Olli still an old player from
Springfield nine laps Gordy was good to
me
non-drowsy wouldn't be would he do
anything
yeah you have to remember on face offs
it's not it's your positioning is as
important as anything because if you go
in straight up and down and here you're
not on balance to get a puck what you
want to do is you want to cheat a little
bit I'm still striving on that leg is
here but I'm a right hand shot so you
want to go in a little bit of an angle
so when you're pulling that's your
movement down to here because if you're
going straight where would I be pulling
there are there we want to gain
possession so the hands the balance and
the quickness so your movement is here
I'm leading with my left foot because
I'm a right hand shot the players be
leaning on the stick in the face
officers are when you go into when you
go in you don't want to be just so rigid
that you're here because by being rigid
you can't lift it what you want to do is
you want to lift your stick so coming
down that motion
that's the motion you want so here you
are here they're coming down so lift
them down and its hands its feet for
balance and I'm telling you on the balls
of your feet here I am I'm strong
because if that puck ties up I'm gonna
move in and I'm gonna be ready but if if
you're not here if you up here straight
legged and you miss it you don't have
any you have to now get down and moved
up up every little tip as I'm giving you
alright all right boys this is a mark of
the dot don't forget penny cbc.ca flash
link lucky to scroll the Murph
okay Wendell you may not be able to
score in the fourteen-year-old sample
but I can't do this this is a really
been a challenge explain the saucer
class what you want to do is you want to
roll a puck from heel to toe when you're
following the puck the pucks really
spinning in a clockwise or
counterclockwise position depending if
you're left or right-handed and you want
to keep your stick blade open and you
follow through without closing your
blade that way the puck lands soft it's
easy to pick up it's easier to pick up
and takes off flat lands flat but if I
flip it it's rolling as it goes to the
other guy it's hard to pick up and it's
basically just leaving your stick blade
open and you're aiming with your heel
instead of your toe and you're you're
cutting the puck from heel to toe
now obviously Wayne Doug Gilmour Gretzky
Gilmour some of the best guys bet he'll
think a backpack stood more in practice
and Brett Hawley watched him at pregame
skates Alexander Mogilny in trial he
loved trying to make a quick little foot
saucer pass in front of the net to try
to get to somebody for just the most
beautiful goal nice work everybody nice
look not easy making a healing yourself
cbc.ca slash big hockey Lamar
you